# GroundedLanguage
ISI Language Grounding and Generation Data

# Data
The Data is located in the BlockWorld directory.  There are currently three versions:
  1.  Blocks are decorated with logos
  2.  Blocks are decorated with digits
  3.  The union of (1) and (2) 

In each folder, there are matrix files generated by the scripts `ModelA_data.py` and `ModelC_data.py`
All sentences have been padded to the same lenght with `<unk>` tokens, which are also used to replace 
rare words occuring fewer than five times.  This threshold is subject to change.

# Models
###Model A:###
The basic assumption behind model A, and the data, is that the world has been discretized.  The matrices take the form:
  >  `< utterance > Source Target Relative-Position`
 
 Here, utterances are indices in the Vocab.txt file.  Source is the block to move, Target is a reference block for where to move to, and Relative-Position is whether the source block should be placed N,NE,E,E,SE,S,SW,W,NW of the target.  This means we have three (independent) softmax predictions:  20, 20, 8
  The corresponding approaches are a simple Feedforward (`ModelA-S-T-RP.jl`) and the RNN variants of it
  
###Model C:###
Model C, makes no discretization assumptions.  Instead, the task is to predict the Source and an absolute `(x,y,z)` coordinate for it to be placed.  To facilitate this, it is provided with access to the world:
  > `< utterance >  < world > Source Position`
  
Here, the utterance and source are represeted the same as before, but the world and final location consist of real-valued `(x,y,z)` triples.  The basic model attempted for this is a simple Feedforward network (`ModelC-S-xyz.jl`).


# Evaluation
Evaluation consists of three numbers:
  1.  Source accuracy
  2.  Mean prediction distance error
  3.  Median prediction distance error

The distances are the absolute distance divided by `0.1524`, in order to show the value in block lengths.  Example scripts are present: `evalA.py` and `evalC.py`
